--- Page 1 ---
  Face Reading - Amazing Secrets 
--By Dharmender Kumar Bansal, Patwari 
 
1st lesson of Face Reading 
There are 12 houses or parts of horoscope. 
every part is belonging to one field of life. 
 
Read from 1st house called Lagna or ascendant. related to forehead.planets from 1st house makes 
effect on 7th. 
 
2nd house - Right eye, planets here also effect 8th house. 
 
3rd house - right ear n shoulder, planets from here effect 9th house too. 
 
4th house - space between eyebrows above the nose, planets effect 10th house too. 
 
5th house - eyelids, it effects on 11th too. 
 
6th house - right Neckbone, make effects on 12th. 
 
7th house - lips, does effect on 1st. 
 
8th house - left Neckbone, planets from here make effects on 2nd. 
 
9th house - lower part of forehead, effect on 3rd house too. 
 
10th house - cheeks and nosehead, effects on 4th. 
 
11th house - left ears n shoulder, makes effect on 5th. 
 
12th house - left eye, makes effect on 6th house. 
 
You can determine from face, in which house, planets r good n bad. 
 
For practice, get your horoscope n match it from ur pic. Feel the planet on your face as per in 
chart. 
 
******** 
2nd lesson of face reading 
 
In vedic astrology 
we count 360 degree circle around our earth in sky. 
 
from east to North, we count anti clock wise, 12 parts of this circle. 
 
each part is of 30 degrees, called Zodiac or Rashi 
 
There are seven main planets in astrology :- 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Two more too :- 
Rahu 
Ketu 
Two more in Western astrology :- 
Uranus 
Pluto 
 
--- Page 2 ---
Each Zodiac has its own lord. 
 
There are 12 Zodiac in astrology. Every one has its own lord as given below :- 
Zodiac sign  -- Lord 
Aries              - Mars 
Tarurus         - Venus 
Gemini         - Mercury 
Cancer         - Moon 
Leo                - Sun 
Virgo            - Mercury 
Libra               Venus 
Scorpio         - Mars 
Sagittarius   - Jupiter 
Capricorn     - Saturn 
Aquarius       - Saturn 
Pisces           - Jupiter 
 
In Indian ancient astrology, we were predicted from main 7 planets. But in present time 
prediction from Rahu n Ketu r also to be considered. 
 
To predict from face, u have to remember all Zodiac n its lord. 
 
There may be any Zodiac in 1st house of horoscope. 
n others are in anti - clock wise. 
 
As u learn in 1st lesson, house r always same. 
part of faces r calculated as per houses always. May be any Zodiac there. 
**** 
 
3rd lesson of face reading 
 
As i said in demo of class, from left eye, there is a mole or birthmark on right thigh. 
 
or from lips, mole etc. near navel. 
 
it can also be seen from face 
 
for it, we ficus, 12 houses of horoscope on all human body. 
 
see from 1st house again, as per mole science. 
 
1st house represents whole face, not  include eyes. 
 
 2nd house - right eye 👁️ 
 3rd - right shoulder n nearby 
 4th - right breast/chest n its back. 
 
5th - right to navel, under armpit. 
 
6th - below the waist under organs n right leg. 
 
7th - navel, penis n vegina. 
 
8th - below the waist, under organs n left leg. 
 
9th - left side of navel, under armpit. 
 
10th - left breast/chest n its back. 
 
11th - left shoulder n nearby. 
 
12th - left eye 👁️ 
--- Page 3 ---
------------------- 
face reading n mole science r based on horoscope ( Lagan Kundali, D-1). 
 
focus on the planet in horoscope. 
 
 try to feel planet,s effect on face 
 if something odd on face. 
 check that part of horoscope 
 planets in that house, effect from its 7th. 
 as any problems shown in 12th, it effects on left eye n so on its 7th house - 6th 
 u have to remember 12 houses from face 
****** 
4th  lesson of face reading 
 In Astrology, there are main 7 planets n two more 
Rahu n Ketu 
 
Every planet shows its effect on body parts n face as given below :- 
 
 Moon- Mental illness and depression due to Moon, sometimes for a long period, give more 
inauspicious effect in Shukla Paksha. Handwriting is not good and negative for mother. 
 
Sun-  Mole diseases etc. caused by Sun get resolved in a month or ayan. There are negative 
effects for father. 
 
Mars- There is a possibility of anger, blood disorder, injury etc. from Mars, it is almost resolved 
only on the change of zodiac sign of Mars. Negative for brother. 
 
Mercury- Speech defects, throat diseases, signs on the skin, character defects are possible from 
Mercury. Negative for sister, aunt, daughter and sister-in-law. Effective in puberty. 
puberty - youth 
 
Jupiter-Strange defects and diseases from Guru, education, loss from husband and grandfather's 
side, doable in long term 
 
Venus- White spots from Venus, decrease in male power, negative for wife's side, doable in 
short term. 
 
Rahu- Due to Rahu, there can be confusion,  fear, confusion and bad relations with in -laws. 
Depending on the planet with which Rahu conjuncts, there are mole diseases etc. The duration of 
the solution of the problem is according to the position of both the planets. Due to Rahu, there 
are sudden gai ns and losses. The addiction to gambling is also worth considering from the 
position of Rahu. 
 
 Ketu- There is a possibility of injury, accident etc. due to Ketu. Ketu is also a factor in 
increasing libido. They also consider the family of the maternal side with Ketu. 
 
Rahu- There is no mention of Rahu Ketu in ancient Vedic astrology texts, but sudden loss or gain 
has been seen in the life of the person according to their position in the horoscope. 
 
 Planets make effects on body parts n face as per their status in horoscope. 
 
 Jupiter can d-shape the part of face or body @ its status in horoscope. 
 
planets in 2nd n 12th house make effects on eye. 
 it also effects on income n expenses 
 
 planets in 2nd house can make their sign below the waist n under organs n leg of left side 
same , planets in 12th effect right side 
 
space between eyebrows above the nose, represents 4th house. Planets in this house can make 
mole etc. on both side of chest/breasts 
 
--- Page 4 ---
 eyelids represent 5th house, planets here can do desease etc. on right to navel n left shoulder 
 
 3-11 houses represent ears n shoulder, planets here can also make mole etc. on right n left to 
navel. 
 
 face reading is matter of practice. I will tell here only rules. You can learn it with practice on 
horoscope n pics of face 
 
5th lesson of face reading 
 
In vedic astrology, there are 27 Nakshatras . 
we can see them in sky around the earth in 360 degrees circles. 
Each Nakshatra has four parts ( Called CHARAN ) 
 In every has 9 parts of Nakshatras 
 
See :- 
27 Nakshatras 
27*4=108 Charan 
108/9 = 12 Zodiac 
 
We focused all 27 Nakshatras on body of Kalpurush ( Lord Vishnu ) 
Every nakshatra has its own lord. 
 
The interpretation of Nakshatra, Nakshatra lord and body parts are as follows:- 
Nakshatra (lord) - body parts 
1- Ashwini (Ketu) - head 
2- Bharani (Venus) – forehead 
3- Krittika (Sun) - eyebrows 
4-Rohini (Chandra) - eyes 
5- Mrigashira (Mars) - nose 
6- Ardra (Rahu) - ear 
7 - Punarvasu (Guru) - cheek 
8- Pushya (Saturn) - lips 
9 - Ashlesha ( Mercury ) - chin 
10 - Magha (Ketu) - Throat 
11- Poorvaphalguni (Venus) - shoulders 
12 -Uttaraphalguni (Sun) - Heart 
13 - Hasta ( Moon ) - Armpits 
14- Chitra (Mars) - Chest 
15- Swati (Rahu) - stomach 
16 - Visakha (Guru) - Navel 
17 - Anuradha (Saturn) - waist 
18- Jyestha (Mercury) - thigh 
19- Mool (Ketu) - Buttocks 
20- Poorvashadha (Venus) - Linga 
21- Uttarashada (Sun) - testicles 
22- Shravan (Moon) – Pedu 
23- Dhanishta (Mars) - thigh 
24 - Shatabhisha (Rahu) - Knees 
25- Poorvabhadrapada (Guru) - shin 
26- Uttarabhadrapada (Saturn) – Ankle 
27- Revati (Mercury) - feet 
 
 In face reading, we have to find Nakshatras of ascendant. 
n its lord 
 You can determine ascendant of natal from face. 
 
Ashwani 4 + Bharni 4 + Kritika 1 = 9 parts ( CHARAN ) of 3 Nakshatras r in 1 Zodiac - Aries 
 Lord  - Mars 
 it is same for all 12 Zodiac. 
 
6th lesson of Face Reading 
--- Page 5 ---
 
 There are 12 steps to read a face :- 
1 Forehead 
2 Space between eyebrows 
3 Eyelids 
4 Eyes 
5 Cheeks 
6 Ears 
7 Nosehead 
8 Space between nose n lips 
9 Upper lip 
10 Lower lip 
11 Chin 
12 Neckbones 
------------------------ 
 
Must make it a rule, never read a face director to natal 
 use his/her close face pic for reading 
 u have to constrate on face before prediction 
 not easy to see straight on face in real 
so u have to prefer photograph for reading. 
***** 
 Always start from forehead. 
 
1forehead - related to 1 n 9th house of horoscope. See the Nakshatra of ascendant n its lord in 
horoscope. u must feel effect of that planet on face n forehead 
 
 2 Space between eyebrows above the nose - related to fourth hous e of horoscope, u can predict 
all from this space, what you can do from fourth house. 
 
 3 Eyelids - related to 5th house of horoscope, education and kids. planets of this house, make 
their effects on eyelids. 
 
4 Eyes - related to 2 n 12th houses of horoscope. shows income n expenses. 
 
5 Cheeks - related to 10th house, carear n father. As this house is fourth to 7th. From cheeks u 
can say about partner too. 
 Dimples here, shows, behaviour of partner. 
 
6 Ears - related to 3 n 11th house of horoscope, working capacity n earning. 
 
 7 Nosehead - it is also related to 10th house, Punarvasu nakshatra, showing ego or politeness. It 
is shaped @  position of Jupiter 
 
8 Space between nosehead n lips - nosehead is related to Punarvasu nakshatra, lord Jupiter and 
lips is related to Pushya nakshatra, lord Saturn. Position n effects of these planets seen on this 
space. 
  
9 Upper lip  - related to 7th house of horoscope. Way of talking can predict from it. 
 
10 Lower lip - It is also related to 7th house, partner, friends, hu sband/wife n time of marriage 
and affair can be predicted from lower lip. Effects of Planets here n its lord make shape of lips. 
From practice, u will learn, which planet is here in this house. 
 
 11 Chin - related to Ashlesha Nakshatra, lord Mercury. Posit ion of mercury makes its shape. 
Can predict as Mercury is in horoscope. 
 
12 Neckbones - related to 6 n 8th houses of horoscope. Can predict from lords of these houses n 
planets here. 
 
7th lesson of Face Reading 
 
--- Page 6 ---
 You will be amazed to know, Every planet makes different effects on face. 
 planets in 1st house, lord of 1st house n lord of ascendant,s Nakshatras also makes effect on 
face. 
as i told in start, 12 houses of horoscope, represents different parts of face. 
planets in all houses also  make  their effects on that parts n u can be seen it via practice. 
 
Each Planet makes effect as per its nature 
here i try to tell some effects as per nature of planets. 
 
Sun is like a king in vedic astrology. it makes royal effect on face, if it has any connecti on with 
1st house. it makes wheatish complexions n dull features 
 
Moon is like queen, makes softness n innocence on face, makes sharp features. Natal may be 
looked in worried status 
 
Mars is like soldier, it creates cruelty n hardness on face. Features loo k not so good. Sometimes 
it gives scar or mole on face. 
 
Mercury is like prince. Natal,s look on face like opposite gender. Man looks like feminine n 
woman looks like boys. In nature too. 
 
Jupiter is like a teacher n priest. It makes look intellectual. Som etimes it does features 
misshapen. 
 
venus is wife n people of same age group. I mean two or three years, younger or older. It also 
gives lovely features n softness on face. 
 
Saturn is judge, uncles, doctor n labour in astrology. It gives hardness on face n  bold features. It 
makes black mole or frackle on face. 
 
There may be more than one planet in 1st house. their effects r see mixed on face. As i told in 
previous lessons, face reading is matter of practice. 
 
See the ascendant in horoscope. 
1st , try to feel the effect of its lord on face. 
2nd, see the planets in 1st house, try to feel their effects on face. 
3rd, see the planet in other houses, n try to see their effects on all features of face. 
 
 
It is 8th lesson 
 
 In 27 Nakshatras, 10 are on face of Kalpurush 
 
1 Ashwani, lord ketu is on head 
 
2 Bharni, lord venus, is on forehead 
 
3 Kritika, lord Sun, is on eyebrows 
 
4 Rohini, lord Moon, is on eyes 
 
5 Mrigshira, lord Mars, is on nosehead 
 
6 Aardara, lord Rahu, is on ears 
 
7 Punarvasu, lord Jupiter is on cheeks 
 
8 Pushya, lord Saturn, is on lips 
 
9 Ashlesha, lord Mercury, is on chin 
 
10 Magha, lord Ketu, is on neck. 
--- Page 7 ---
 
In face reading, u have to see the effect of these planets on features of face @ Nakshatra 
 
You will be amazed to see, if any Planet is not good in horoscope, that feature is also not seen 
lovely or good 
 
All nine planets make different type of moles or frackle on face 
 
With effect of Sun, golden colour mole or frackle or birthmark is possible 
 
Moon makes a person psycho or depressed 
 
Mars gives scar or red colour mole or frackle 
 
Mercury makes marks on skin 
 
Jupiter makes d-shape features 
 
Due to venus, pimples or white scars r possible 
 
Saturn gives black colour mole or make less or more than normal, hairs on body parts n face. 
 
d-shape means big or small than average. 
 
Rahu makes mole or frackle or birthmark with presence of other planets with it in same  Zodiac. 
 
Ketu makes honey colour mole or scar of surgery 
 
To predict from face, see all the features taking time. Don't say anything  in hurry. Applying all 
the rules , told here in all lessons. 
 1st of all try to find lord of ascendant. 
You can guess it via whole face. 
 
Ninth lesson of Face Reading 
 
Lord of ascendant, makes effect on face as per its quality in astrology. 
 
As I told u in 8th lesson, in start of face reading u have to guess the zodiac in 1st house 
 
For it, u have to learn the planet n zodiac. 
Planet - Its Zodiac 
Sun - 5 
Moon - 4 
Mars - 1 and 8 
Mercury - 3 and 6 
Jupiter - 9 and 12 
Venus - 2 and 7 
Saturn - 10 and 11 
Digit here represents Zodiac as 1 represents Aries 
 
People with Sun as lord of ascendant, have honey coloured eyes. The face will be large and 
round. The hair and the colour of the body will have a light shade. Means wheatish in India. It 
also represents right eye in man n left eye in woman. 
 
People with Moon as lord of ascendant, looks soft and sober. As Moon is not a planet in real at 
astronomy. 
Its effect makes a natal loose confidence n depressed. Some time moon as lord of ascendant n  
other planets in 1st ho use make combined effect. You will be able to learn its effect on face via 
practice. 
Left eye of male n right eye of female, breast, uterus, bladders n sympathetic nerves are 
governed by moon. 
 
--- Page 8 ---
People with Mars, will have fair complexion with a shade of re d. Natal has scar or red mole etc. 
on face. There will be pimples on the face took. Looks hard n cruel. Natal,s struggle in life can 
be seen on face. 
Mars governs the external sex organs, left ear, sense of taste. People in effect of Mars like 
sweets. 
 
People with Mercury, seems as opposite gender. I mean male looks like female n female looks 
like male. Natal,s eyebrows will be curved with much hairs. These persons appear younger than 
their actual age. height is average. 
 Mercury makes a natal talktive. He likes n prefer green. It represents sister/brother-in-laws. 
 
People with Jupiter, have good growth after young age. Looks intelligent n meture. Its Natal get 
respect in society. Sometimes Jupiter makes features d-shaped. 
Jupiter represents grand father for male n husband for female. 
 
People with Venus, have average height, plumpy body, round and pimpled face, attractive 
features, pleasing eyes, sweet smile and curly hair. Venus governs eyes, chin n cheeks. 
 
 People with Saturn, apear to be much older tha n actual age. Natal has thin -built, bony and has 
pale or dark complexion. Saturn in good condition, gives fair complexion n a good face without 
any mole, scar etc. The eyes will be deep-set. 
 
10th lesson of Face Reading 
 
The planet in 1st house n lord of ascendant, together make effects too. 
 
Jupiter as lord of ascendant with son in 1st house or Jupiter n sun together in 1st house make a 
royal n intellectual look. 
Jupiter n Moon, make unpleasant look. 
Jupiter n Venus, make looking rich n wealthy, but in fact natal has lack of money. 
Jupiter n Mars - looks cruel but intellectual. 
Jupiter n Mercury - looks saint like 
 Jupiter n Saturn - has more or less hairs on face. 
Jupiter n rahu or ketu - makes mole etc. on face or scar. 
 
Sun is lord of ascendant n Venus in 1st house or sun with Venus - make unpleasant features. 
Sun n moon  - mole etc or big lips. 
sun n Mercury - looks royal but like opposite gender. As boy looks like girl. 
Sun n Saturn - looks cruel but intellectual 
Sun n rahu or ketu - mole, frackle birthmark on face. 
 
Moon is lord of ascendant n Venus in 1st house or Moon with venus - looks charming or white 
dots on face 
Moon n Mars - looks psycho n mole on face. 
Moon n Mercury - looks like opposite gender. Natal is little different than normal people. 
Moon n Saturn - unpleasant features n have less or more hairs on face than normal. 
 moon n rahu or ketu - Looks mantally distrubed, mole or frackle on face 
 
Venus as lord of ascendant with Mars in 1st house or Venus n Mars together - make pleasent 
features n wheatish complexions. 
Venus n Mercury - looks like opposite gender. 
Venus n Saturn - looks claver. 
Venus n rahu or ketu - mole etc. romantic 
 
Mars as lord of ascendant n Mercury in 1st house or Mars n Mercury together - looks brave n 
intellectual. 
Mars n Saturn - looks cruel n hard n has mole etc. 
Mars n Rahu or Ketu - scar or mole etc on face. 
 
Mercury as lord of ascendant n Saturn in 1st house or Saturn n Mercury together - looks like 
drunken. n have mole, pimples etc. on face. 
 
--- Page 9 ---
More than two planets in 1st house, also make effects on face as per their nature. 
 
Dharmendar Kumar Bansal "Patwari" 
